Yegor: A few words about myself just quickly. I'm writing software for 25 years, starting in school. For about 15 years, I was managing a team, different teams, up to 120 people, sometimes of developers, in Ukraine mostly. I'm also a Java developer myself, a project manager, and an owner of a company [which] was, you know, managing all these people. You can see my Twitter account. You can see my blog. Please subscribe. That will be interesting, because everything I'm gonna say today is explained in my blog and many different articles. So, I'm gonna present [to] you the way we manage programmers, the way we manage projects, and it's quite different from everything you've seen in many - in all - other places. So, that's why you definitely will be interested to see more content from me. Here's the subject. Here's the problem. So, in all my projects, for many, many years I had the same [issue] as these people are saying about the industry in general. So all our projects, all the software development we have, is basically chaos. So, we fail, we slip the schedule, we miss time, we don't complete the requirements, we don't deliver, we spend money, and customers are not happy. I've had that for 15 years - in all - in most of our projects. And, I found statistics in the report which says we're in chaos. And, they say that about like 94 - which is almost a hundred - percent of projects actually fail and have to restart. That's what the report says about the entire industry. And, they say that only seven percent of [the] projects failed because of technical incompetence. So, the problem is not with programmers. The problem is with the management. They fail because we miss requirements, because we don't understand what to do, because we cannot control what we do, because we cannot manage ourselves. It's not because we're bad programmers, not because we don't know Java or Ruby or whatever. It's because we don't manage ourselves the right way. And, I've had the same [issue], so that's why I tried to solve the problem, and invented the methodology which actually, in my case, in my experience, in our projects, actually helped us a lot to to resolve that [issue] and be successful. There are five things that - the methodology is quite big, but there are five things - I want to highlight today. They're quite controversial. That's why it's interesting. So, five things. How we are different from everything you've seen before: Thing number one: Traditionally, we believe, traditionally you believe, or they believe, that the teamwork is so important for the success of the project. We think that it's so important to keep the team together, to make sure that people stay together, that they are motivated to work together. And, the job of the manager is to make sure there's a team there, [and to] make sure that people match to each other. And, this is the key factor for the success of this team, for the success of the project. So, we just spend a lot of time on on the team building, on team spirit, on making sure the people love each other. And, that's how we guarantee the success. I think that this approach is for lazy managers. This is for people who cannot understand how to manage programmers. This is for people who are not really managers. This is what causes troubles in projects. This is what this is what leads to loss of the "A players". Do you know what "A players, B players, and C players" is? This is the terminology from the sales [world] actually, but, I think it can be applied to programming as well. So, in any team, we have A players, B players, and C players. Like senior programmers, medium programmers, and junior programmers. So A players, they're always - you know - aiming for excellence. They're always trying to do better. C players are the people who we kind of have to remove from the team. So, this approach with the teamwork in our experience is really good for C players and its really good for lazy managers. In our case, we do the opposite. We aim for individual responsibility. Not team responsibility, but individual responsibility, always. So, we don't like the idea of the team in general. We always pay attention to, "Who is doing what?", "What's the personal scope of the task?", and we scope that task individually. So, we always assign tasks individually to programmers. We always give tasks to [the programmers.] We always control the results of each programmer individually. So - we never - we don't do the teamwork at all. So, we clearly define the rules of the work. And this is a lot of job we do on the management side. We always have an architect on our team who is the person who is responsible - personally responsible - for the success of the project, and who is making all technical decisions. So, we don't have any democracy in our teams. We don't vote for technical decisions. It's always the architects who makes the decisions and always the team - the players or developers - who are responsible for their own scope of work - for their own tasks. We always work remotely. So, that's probably what is different from other teams. But, we work remotely. So, all our programmers - they stay in their own places, in their own countries, and we work. We don't have a central office at all. So, all our teams work remotely. And, they communicate only electronically. So, that also helps us to stay away from this "team idea" and to focus on an "individual results" idea. That's [the] first thing. The second one is over time. Traditionally - (Yegor points at slides) - What's on the left it's "traditionally". What's on the right is our approach. So, traditionally, programmers are managed by stress, in most cases. So, we just know that programmers [are], in general, I mean managers assume that programmers, in general, are kind of lazy. So, the best way to manage them is to put the deadlines as close as possible, and then stress them so they work overtime. They work on the weekend, and that's how they will achieve better results. That's how they will be more or less under control. That's the only way bad managers can control people - [it] is just to keep them under stress. And that's how programmers will do something. So we give them deadlines, we give them stress, and we get overtime. So they work more, they spend more, and we believe, and - managers in general assume that if people stay overtime, if they stay in the office, after the office is closed, these are the "good programmers". These are the good developers who stay over time to spend more time in the office. In our case, it's quite the opposite. So, we don't want programmers to work more. We want to work them less. We expect them to develop and to commit their code, and to close their tasks, and to close their tickets, and to do anything voluntarily - only when they want to do that. So, we allow our programmers to reject tasks if they don't want to do them. If they don't feel like it. So, we just give them tasks and allow them to choose whether it's a good time for them to work on them or not. Whether it's a good task for them or not. And, whether it's a good time for them to do it now. And, in most cases, most projects, our programmers, when the project is full of work - and, we have a lot of tasks - they spend three, four hours a day for the development, not more. So, we never work eight hours a day. Forget the overtime. We don't have overtime at all. So three, four hours a day. It's - in my experience - it's the maximum time a good programmer can spend a day for actually productive work. And they do it voluntarily because, I'll say about it later but, because we pay for results, that's why they're really interested to do the work, because, they get - you know - they get money for that. So, they do it when they feel like it. Sometimes they commit a lot of time one week and the next week they commit less time. So, the graph jumps up and down. And, it's not under control of the manager. The manager doesn't push the person - any developer - to any amount of work. If we don't have enough - you know - resources, if we don't have enough people to close all our tasks, then our managers have to find more people. Then we have to find more resources - I mean developers, programmers, resources, whatever. So, we find more of these resources, and it's a job of a manager how to - you know - to find more more resources and give that tasks to that people. But, we never stress programmers. We never expect them to work more than they want to. So, it's the job of a manager. That's what I'm saying. So, our managers are way more busy than traditional managers, because they really have to do the management work. They don't need to stress anybody. They need to schedule tasks on a timeline. So, we don't have ever overtimes at all. Number three is "Learnings." I'm going from this from the [least] critical to the more and more critical. So, "Learning". Traditionally, in any project which I've seen before, people, programmers, the core, are the main holder of information and knowledge. So, this is the most knowledgeable part of any project. This is the most important part of any project. If programmers know enough about the stuff they develop, then the project is more or less successful. The more they know, the more knowledgeable they are, the higher the chances of success. And, if somebody - someone new - [a] new programmer joins the project, then it takes some time to ramp up that person, to - you know - to teach that person all the new technologies and everything which is in the project. And, it takes a month. It takes two months. And, it takes sometimes three months. So, it takes long enough to bring somebody new to the project. This is the traditional way. That's what we have in most projects. And, in most cases, we have so-called experts - subject-matter experts - so, people who know most of the - they possess the majority of the knowledge in the project. So, they know a lot. And, these people are the key decision-makers in the project. If we lose that person in a traditional environment, if we lose that expert, we lose a lot. And that's why [these] people kind of start to control the owners of the project. It's not that the manager who controls the the development environment. It's the people, the experts, who control people with the money. So, they tell the customers what's going to happen, not the customer says what's gonna happen, but the people who are experts. They start to manipulate people with money. This is what I've seen in a lot of places. We change that completely. In our case, we don't really like the idea of having people who know too much in the project. We want our artifacts - our documents - to know "too much". We want our product to be self- explainable so that anybody tomorrow joins the project and can understand everything in just a few hours. It may sound crazy, but it really happens in our projects. We bring sometimes new programmers to the project which is one year old. And, that new developer starts writing code and making new classes, writing new unit tests, committing code, in just one hour. So, it doesn't take a month or two months to learn because we don't have experts. We don't have people who know "too much". We only have documents, and source code, and diagrams which explain everything. How we achieve that: We - first of all - we rotate people. We change people from project to project. We move them because we understand that the more experts we have the bigger is the trouble for us. We don't want experts. We want people [to] be - How [do] they say it? - like commodity programmers. So, they're like - they can work here, and then, tomorrow they can work there. So they can go from project to project and can contribute there as effectively as they were contributing yesterday in a different project. So, first of all, we did - i'll say a few words about it later - But, here we rotate them. We change them. And, second, we promote the idea of "always blame the project, don't blame yourselves". If you start working in a project, you don't understand anything. You don't need to learn. You need to say that the project is not is not sufficient enough for me to understand how it works. If you open the piece of code, if you look at it, you don't understand how it works. You don't learn it. You don't ask anybody. You don't find an expert. You just say, "Hey, your class or your piece of code is not clear enough. So, fix it." And then, we fix it for you. And then, it will be easier for you to understand it later. So, we always ask programmers to blame us - the project - for not being clear enough. And, we fix that. We improve the quality of the documentation. And, we bring it back to you and ask, "Can you fix it now?" If you can't fix it now, then again you blame us. And then, in a number of [those] cycles, eventually the project becomes as clear for you so you can understand it in half an hour. You probably have questions. We'll get back to it. [audience laughs] Number four: We have five in total. Number four: "Meetings" Traditionally, people believe that the more programmers communicate, the more meetings they have, the higher the chances of success in the project. The more - the closer - they stay together, the more of these face-to-face communications they have, the higher the chances that they will actually understand what's going on. And, they will produce something. So, that's why we have these Slack chats. We have these Skype calls. We have conference calls. Sometimes, the senior developers spend half of their day or maybe sometimes the full day in just meetings and just talking and talking and exchanging information. And, this is what - you know - managers believe is a good way to do. They think that senior developers have to be in [those] meetings. They [the senior developers] have to spend time on talking instead of writing code. And, even [the] Agile manifesto says so, like [that] face-to-face communications is always better than documentation. We completely disagree with that. We believe that the more meetings you have, the more informal communications, the more these chats you have, and the more face-to-face calls or whatever you call it by - "remote calls" - doesn't matter. The more you have of that, the bigger the trouble you [have] caused to the project. Because, you exchange the information which stays nowhere. We talk to each other. I explain [to] you how it works. You understand how it works. But tomorrow, somebody else will join the project. And, that person will not know how it works. So, we will have to explain again. We'll have to explain again. So, every minute spent in the meeting is the wasted money of the customer. So, the more we talk, the more we exchange information informally, the more money we waste, which the customer is paying us. So, good developers, I believe, and - we seriously preach this idea - the good developers - good engineers - they exchange informations through documents, through diagrams, through the source code, through formal written communication. [Good engineers use written communication] which is maintainable, which we can get back to in a year, in a month, in a week, in an hour, and understand why that decision was made, who made that decision, [and] what was the reason behind that decision. To achieve that - you know - not to enforce, but encourage people to actually use documents instead of calls, we don't allow them to call. [laughs] We just - that's so easy. [clapping in the audience] We just - we just don't. [laughs] They just don't have phone numbers of each other. So, we don't have that Slack chats. We don't have that Skype calls. They don't know, I mean, they know each other, but only through... We work on GitHub. So, they only know their GitHub accounts. All they can do in a project... If I don't know anything, for example: I joined the project. There are like 20 developers in there. I don't have some information. I can't call anybody. I can't ask anybody. All I can do is I can submit the ticket and say, "Hey, this piece of information is missing from that document. Can you please - you know - fix that and put that piece of information into that document?" And, somebody will fix that for me. I don't care who it's gonna be. I don't care who's gonna fix that. All I care about is that I look at the document and I find that missing piece of information. That's the idea. So, if you allow programmers - you know - to talk to each other, they will. If you allow them to call, they will, because it's naturally better for us - you know - to communicate - you know - face to face. Just - here's the - my friend sitting next to me. I'm gonna ask him. I'm not gonna - you know - get the document. I'm gonna just ask and get the information. We completely disallow that. For us, it's easy because we work remotely. So, all our developers are somewhere. They're like - you know - in different countries, in different time zones. So, we don't have a central place. So, we just keep them like that. And, we don't allow them to - you know - to get into some Slack chat and talk. All they can do is communicate through ticketing systems, through the source code. And that's how we achieve that results. So, we have only documents and only diagrams. And, I'm saying it again. Sometimes, it's very often we have projects which are one year old and the new developer jumps in and there's like 50 thousand lines of code of Java code - like serious Java code. And, the new developer jumps in and starts writing code in just one hour. It's unachievable in a traditional project configuration. The last one. And [then] we [will] have questions. "Salaries": The biggest problem. So, traditionally, we believe that - I mean, everybody believes that - it's so important to keep the developer happy and to keep the developer safe. And, it's - you know - to get and keep the loyalty from the person. So, we need long time, long term contracts, good salary, paid every month, and that's how we're gonna achieve - you know - good results from that particular person. So, we usually pay for when - not we, but you - you usually get paid for per month, per time, sometimes per hour, sometimes per month. But, it's always for time. You just sit in front of the computer, and you do something, and they pay you for this time. You achieve the result, they pay you. You don't achieve the result, they still pay. You work, they pay you. You don't work, they still pay you. That's a huge problem, I believe, especially for A players. Remember that A, B, C players. We have "A players", people who really want to achieve something, and we have "C players" who just enjoy being in front of the computer. So, the A players, they don't like that. They will leave your project. And, they will not be productive at all because this format - you know - puts everybody on the same level. [That is] because, if I'm the A player and I produce results, I'm still paid more or less at the same level as the C player who produces zero results. And then another [issue] is "soft skills". So then, in the end, to make a decision [about] who's gonna get more salary, who's gonna get the raise, who's gonna get the - you know - who's gonna get fired - we use "soft skills". Who is the nicer guy in the team, who talks more, who is more communicative, who is the good match for the team - that's how we decide who gets the raise. [This is] instead of looking at the real results. Instead of looking at the numbers. I don't know [if it's] numbers but, [I mean] the actual results that people provide. So, we use the "soft skills". It completely demotivates A players, in my experience. So, we remove that. We don't have salaries at all. Well, we pay money, but we don't pay salaries. [laughs] We pay for results. Every time developers complete something - close the ticket, file a bug. Basically two things: Close the ticket, and file the bug. So, fix the bug or file a bug. We pay for that. And, we do micro payments. So, we pay our developers in like really small, micro payments. We can do that because we work with remote programmers and freelancers mostly. And, we pay them through like PayPal, BitCoin, whatever. So, we just - you know - we have these transactions - many transactions - every day. And, the more they commit, the more they, not commit but, the more results they produce... It's not about the number of lines of code, It's not about some productivity metrics. It's about, close the task, or not close the task. Here's the problem: You either solve the problem or you don't solve the problem. When the problem is solved... And, we have small problems. We always have small tasks, half an hour, or one hour, really micro tasks... The task is closed. We pay. The task is not closed - we don't pay. So, there's no salaries. This is how we make it so easy to measure the performance, and productivity, and motivation of everybody in the project. Because, we - I mean - we don't pay in the end of the month. We pay when the project - when the task - is closed. So, I'm basically done. I think you will have questions but let me [first] summarize. So, in this model of work which I just explained, we've been working for about three years already. 250 developers went through this model. So, 250 people actually tried that and got some money from us in different tasks and different projects. [These projects are] mostly Java, 90% is Java. 25 projects completed. Commercial and open source. We have open source projects as well, so you can look at them. Come to me later, [and] I'll give you my coordinates. You can look at the GitHub account. And, you will see a number of projects which were completed using this technology - this approach. And, you will see how we communicate to each other in GitHub tickets. So, you will see how we get rid of these meetings [completely]. And, all our communications are there. You will see even how we pay programmers because all these like payment - you know - successful payment notifications are there in GitHub. It will be quite interesting. And, we produced about 300,000 lines of Java code. It's pretty big amount of code. And, all of these projects were really successful comparing to what I had before for many years. So, I'm asking you to follow me. Subscribe to the blog and you will learn more. So, now questions from you guys. [audience applause] Moderator: So, we have a plenty of questions in slider and I will start with the most voted ones. Okay? And, so you talk about information but, what about designing together? Because the design is - it's - a product of a conversation. Yegor: Well, yeah. It's... yeah. I've heard the question many times. So, people again believe that the design is the result of the conversation of the work of the group. But, in my experience it's not that true. In my experience, the design is always the result of one person thinking and asking people around. So, when we start a project, we always have some person as an architect - in the role of the architect - and that person is responsible for creating the skeleton, the prototype of the product. That person may collect information from other people, asking, "What do you think about this? I'm not sure about choosing the database. So, tell me which database would you think I should use? Tell me about the technology I should use." So, questions are welcome. That the architect has to have - has to ask - questions, this is perfect. But, the final decision - the final design - has to be made by one person. That's what I believe. Moderator: Buf if they get paid for answers, if they don't get paid, they don't get to ask questions. Yegor: We pay for answering questions, of course. But, all questions are like tickets. So, let's say, for example, you're a good database engineer, yeah. And, I am like an architect. And, I don't really know what kind of database to choose, MySQL or PostgreSQL. So, I'm sorry, I'm submitting a ticket and saying, "Hey, I['m] miss[ing] a comparison of MySQL and PostgreSQL. I need a comparison provided for me. This is a task for you for an hour. So, you work for an hour, give me the table, a spreadsheet, comparing why MySQL is better for us and why PostgreSQL is better for us. And, I say, "Thank you very much." I know that. Now, let me make a decision. So, that's how it should be - iteratively goes through questions, and answers, and then finally, I will be able to make my decision. Again, it's not easy. It's way easier to sit together in the same room and say, "Hey, what do you think about PostgreSQL?" and you say, "Well, MySQL is better." "Oh, that's right, thank you very much!" and then I make a decision. But then, in two months, somebody will come and say, "Hey, why the decision for MySQL was made?" and, I'm gone from the project because - you know - they fired me already. You're gone as well. [audience laughs] They fired you, too. And then, the question is, "Who made the decision?" Well, there were two guys - you know - yeah. I still have the phone number of the one guy. Let me call him. But instead, we're gonna have the detailed conversation. And, the ticket for that. And, everybody will be able to jump in and see, "Yeah, that guy who is fired asked the question, "Why MySQL?" And, another guy submitted the detailed explanation of them. That's a perfect meeting traceability. Moderator: My friends, there are so many questions in slider. Go ahead and vote for questions, because, oh, let's make it moderated, OK? I'll ask the top most questions. And, there are many. So, there is the - it's not a question. It's like a complaint: Three hours of work, are you kidding? My manager will kill me. The stock will decrease. And, the company will close. Yegor: For three hours of work? Moderator: Three hours of work, are you kidding me? Yegor: Yeah per day. Yeah. I believe honestly that a productive - like a good engineer - Well, I'm talking about myself, first of all. So, I can't imagine working for eight hours a day on something which is not my personal project - you know - which I really love. So, working for somebody, for some project, for money, 3-4 hours a day, is the total maximum and normal - you know - good engineer can really handle, I think. So, otherwise, it's eight hours and three five hours of Facebook watching - you know - out of this. So, it's gonna be three hours, in any case. So, you're not going to be productive for eight hours, it's not possible. You can really write code for three [hours]. Sometimes, even two hours is enough. But, I think that, in general, programmers have to be paid way better. So, we need to earn way more. We need to make more money per hour and spend less time in front of the computer. You know [what I mean]? So, I don't know how much you're making, but an average like say, for example, now programmers are making like - personaly, I dunno - 25 euros an hour, thirty euros an hour. They have to make a hundred [Euros], but work three times less. In this case - but - they work three times less. But - they have to be paid for results, not for the time. So now, we are all paid for eight hours - you know - from the morning till the evening. Whatever I do, you pay me. But, it should be the other way. It should be the opposite: You pay me way more, but only for the results I produce. In the end, it will be the same amount of money in cash. Maybe a little bit more, but I will be focused on results. I'll be really motivated and interested to actually work, instead of just pretending I'm working, just sitting there. And, just going to, okay, so the three hours is that. Three hours is the maximum. Well, four. Moderator: The next question: Who decides how much time the problem takes to solve? If it's the business, how can [they] estimate? They always think the task is easy. Yegor: Well, yeah. We just, in our approach, we always give the same budget for all tasks. So, we always give it a really small budget. And then, we use this technology where we allow developers to return back the code in incomplete state. So, I guess you're developers, right? Who are the developers? Who actually writes code here? Like 75%, maybe more. So, you should understand that. Let's say you get a task [where] you have to implement that feature. And, the feature is way bigger than one hour. So, we don't ask you to - you know - to... We ask you to cheat, basically. We ask you to implement the - provide the high level implementation with certain parts not implemented yet. So, we say, this feature, for example, I have to be able to click the button and log in. And, this is one hour for you. And, you understand that's one hour. It's not enough. It should be like five hours. So, you just create a button. It says "log in". It's clickable. But, it doesn't log in. So, you just return back the code to me - to the master branch - and say, the button is there but, there is a marker [which] says "to-do later: Implement the log-in this and that way." So, you kind of help us to improve - to design that. And, by introducing the high level solution, and then keeping the markers of where other programmers have to contribute more. So, you return back the code with the markers. And then, these markers we convert back to new tasks. So, we ask developers to help us break down the problem into smaller pieces. That's how we do it. Moderator: Next question. Yegor: We call it "puzzle driven development". So, we call these pieces "puzzles". So, we give you the task. You return it back with puzzles inside. And then, somebody else will solve [those] puzzles. And while people solve the puzzles, they will introduce new puzzles. So, when we start developing, it's just a few puzzles. And then, it goes like that. [Yegor gestures an expanding mountain with his hands] So, there are like hundreds of puzzles. And then, when all of them get fixed, the software gets back [together], and it starts to work well. It becomes completely functional. If you're interested, come back to me later. I'll explain. Moderator: Next question. Isn't there a lack of quality? Developers deliver the code and go. There is no motivation in delivering good code. Who decides whether to pay or not? Yegor: Yeah, that's a good question. So, definitely. And, we really ask our developers to be lazy. So, be lazy. Don't try to do more than you can do. But, be prepared that the quality control is really strict in front of you. So, when you get the task and you have to implement something, do as little as you can. You don't need to - you know - to make it hard. You don't make the quality higher than the quality bar we have in front of you. And, the quality bar is quite high. So, for you to return back the code to us, to the master branch, it has to pass two code reviews plus the automated merge instruments. So, we're going to merge your branch back to master branch only if all the tests and all the static analysis and all the coverage control, everything passes. So, for example, they'll give you the example of how high is the quality bar for us. Static analysis is the step in the build for us. So, we don't with - The build is not going to pass if the static analyzer says there are any bugs, any warnings, [or] any complaints. You know what static analysis is, right? Do you know what static analysis is? Okay, good. So you understand the static analysis is usually is used as a tool which is - you know - which we run on the code and which generates some - you know - spreadsheets, some interesting web pages, which we'll look at and say, "Hey, the rate of our static analysis warnings is a bit lower than the yesterday. That's great, but, there's still a lot of them - Still a lot of complaints." Look at your project. Run the static analyzer for your project. No matter what language you're using, you will see there many of them. In our case, there is zero. So, we run the static analysis on the entire code base. And, there should be zero warnings, which is really difficult to achieve. If you're serious, if your static analysis is configured properly, it's really difficult to achieve. Especially, there are many people working there. And, the code base is quite big in our case. No matter how big is the code base, no matter how many developers are there, we're not gonna merge your stuff unless there's no bugs. There's no static analysis complaints. So, that's an example of how high is the quality bar. So, what I'm saying is that, we're kind of building a conflict. Here's your task. You're gonna get the money when it's merged. But, you're not gonna get [your code] merged if the quality is not high enough. And, we do it for every single task. So, for each - for every single increment. For every single developer who is trying to change the code and commit the new stuff into our code base into master. We always check the quality. We'll always check the quality. So, when the project is one year old, we merged already a thousand pull requests. And, for all these thousand pull requests, for thousand[s of] steps, micro increments, we check the quality again, again, and again. So, in the end, the quality is really high. Again, you can check our GitHub projects in Java. You will see how high is the quality of our code. Moderator: Okay, great. There was a comment. Maybe you have something to say about it. Even prisoners are allowed one call. Yegor: [laughs] Well, yeah. For the call. Yeah. I've heard that complain a lot. So, people saying like, "Hey, we're people. We love to call each other. We love to say good morning sometimes. What kind of work is that when there is like, yeah, people don't talk to each other?" I also thought so. I had that fear years ago when I introduced that [no call policy]. I was like hey, programmers not gonna like it, because they're kind of used to talking to each other. They love these, all these Slack chats, and hashtags, and everything. But, when we're talking about A players, when we're talking about senior developers, they really don't like that. They like to stay focused on their stuff, which is really interesting for them. They have other places where we can - where they can - talk to somebody. They can - you know - have beer. They can smile. They can joke. That the work and the project is the place where people are interested in professional growth, not - you know - interpersonal communications, in my experience. Because, let's face the reality: The project is just a temporary group of people who have nothing in common basically. In most cases, they're from different countries, they're from different cultures, they're from different - they're different ages, they're just different people. They come together because they are Java experts, for example. And, this is what they have in common. That's it. They're not friends. They never been to school together. They don't live together. They don't have - you know - their families are not friends. So, they want to focus on stuff which they have in common. And, when traditional projects - you know - trying to make a team of them, trying to use these team-building things, and trying to - you know - say like, "Hey, we're one family", They're not one family. They don't have anything in common. Like - you know - I'm 40. He's 16. What kind of family is this? And, this is really annoying for A players. This is really annoying for senior developers to be in the team like that when people are trying to put them together and say it's one family, one team, "we're all together". They['re] just [like,] "Leave me alone. Let me code. Let me - [you] know - write the code. Let me focus on that [which] we are doing." Exactly that. We're just saying remove that interpersonal - you know - stop and focus on this, on the technical, on the technical problems, and people really appreciate it - A players. C players, yeah, they complain. They complain they say like, "Hey, where's your Slack chat? How can I call you? I can explain. You let me call you and I explain everything." We're just saying, "No, here's the ticket. Submit the ticket. You don't like the objective code? You don't like the documentation? Submit the ticket." And he's like, "Yeah, it's not really how I'm used to them to do that. Let me call, it'd be easier for me. It's a clear indication that he's a C player. Or she. Moderator: This is always a man. So, let's move on. If people are only paid for results, how do you handle periods where people have less productivity? They have personal issues, for example. But, they are temporary. Yegor: It's their own problems. I mean, yeah. But, we, there... We're adults, I mean. It's business. So, we, this is... We pay people. I mean, our rates are high. That's first. So, we pay people. We work remotely. And, there are people from mostly from not really expensive countries. And, we pay like 40 bucks an hour, 45 dollars an hour. It's pretty high rate. So, we allow them to make money while they are productive, while they have time. So, they are - you know - they should be smart enough. They should be grown-up people to manage their own finance, to manage their own money. So, save something for the time which for your vacation or whatever. So, we're not trying to - you know - we're trying to respect our people with - our programmers - we're trying to treat them as - you know - as equal. They're not kids. They're not children. So, they don't need to be patronized like in traditional teams. Like, yeah, we're gonna cover your vacation, just sit in the office. It, again, it doesn't motivate A players. It motivates C players. With those, like, hey, I'm productive now because it's luck. Maybe tomorrow I will stop being productive because, who knows. What's gonna happen? They're afraid of that. And, that's why they want to be patronized, protected. They want somebody to take care of them. We just let them take care of themselves. So, we treat them equally. This is the project. We have money here. You produce something. You give the results. We transfer the money from here to here. And then, we're - you know - just go our own ways. So, we don't have any vacations, paid vacations, anything. Moderator: Who is responsible for the final production result? Yegor: Well, for the final productions result, is the architect. So, technically, we have an architect, like I said, in any project. And, that person is responsible for final production result and responsible. We don't like the word responsible, because, responsibility means some - you know - means that you're gonna lose something if something happens. In our case, it doesn't happen. So, in our case, if the project doesn't work in the end, then, you know, that's it. So, there is no - you know - financial responsibility of that person. We're not gonna say like, "Hey, now you're gonna pay us something because you were the architect for a month and you didn't produce anything." So, the word "responsible", in this case, we don't like to use, even with the customer. So, when customers come to us and say like, "Hey, are you gonna be responsible? Is [it] gonna work?" We say, "No, we can't guarantee that the software will work. All we can guarantee [is] that the way we manage the development is effective." It's like it's, I'm always giving this example with the taxi driver. You go into the taxi and you ask, "Can you guarantee that you will take me to the airport?" If the taxi driver is professional enough, he will say like, "No, I can't guarantee you that, because, anything may happen. The car may break. There's gonna be a roadblock, whatever. Anything can happen. All I can guarantee you [is] that I have a GPS, I have a map, I have a driving license, I have the gas in my car. Let's go. Let's go and see what happens. So, we are together in this journey, you know? The same should happen in software development. Any attempt to put responsibility on on the team like say, "Hey guys. Whatever happens, you have to make it work. It's just against the idea of software development. It's wrong. You shouldn't. Well, if you [are] a customer, you shouldn't do it like that. You should check how your team works. How effective are the mechanisms and methods they use to organize their work? And then, see what happens. And also, it's also related to the estimate. So, sometimes people say like "Can you estimate the project? How much will it cost?" We can't estimate, but, we never put that in the contract [that] we can't give you some number and say like, "We estimate it's gonna cost a hundred thousand dollars." Yes, that's an estimate. But, it may be a million easy. So, we just gonna see what happens. We will drive. We're in the taxi. We will drive. But, if on that way straight there, if there will be some - you know - detours and some roadblocks, then we will make detours. And, it will cost you more and more and more. The only thing we can guarantee is that we're not gonna cheat. We're not gonna - you know - make extra detours. That's what you can blame us for. But, don't blame us for - you know - for the road being longer than you were expecting. That's the philosophy. I mean, not every customer will like that, but... Moderator: Okay, let's move on. How do you know that your developers didn't form up hidden secret chat groups? [Yegor and audience laugh] How do you know that your developers does not form up a secret chat groups? Yegor: Well, yeah. We thought about that. And - you know - when they start working, they - sometimes they try. Sometimes they try. [audience laughs] I had - it's a real story. I had a story with the customer. So, the customer came to us. And, I explained the idea, like how we work, and he said like, "I love it. Let's do it your way." And, then we started to work. And then, in about a month, I realized that I don't have enough - you know - tickets. So, he's coming to me and giving me some information which I can't find hidden in tickets. So, he's saying like, "Hey, we're using that technology. It's really great." and I'm like, "Yeah, but, who made that decision?" and he's like, "Yeah, that developer made the decision." and I'm like, "Where? Where's the ticket?" and he's like, "Forget it. No problem. You already made it." And then, I realized that he created the chat - the customer. And, [he] invited developers there. And, they started to talk there. And, I'm like - and me and my managers were like - watching in the tickets. And, the tickets - the amount of tickets - go down. The conversations stop there. But, the information - but the code - is being written. So, they write code. They make decisions. But, we don't see what's going on. And then, I talk to the customer and said like, "Do you have some - you know - do they talk to them?" And he's like, "Yeah. What's wrong with that?" And I'm like, "Dude. I told you; that's completely against our - you know - our principles, our philosophy." And he's like, "All right. All right. I promise you. No more talking." And then, again, the same. So, he just opened the box. And, he ruined the whole thing. So, in the end, the project failed. In the end, it was nowhere, because we completely lost control of the situation. You know - you understand why, because these people started it all. They started to make decisions. And then, this - we completely lost control. That's it. So, the project failed, and quite - Yeah. They told him like - this customer - I told him like, "Look, I can't be responsible anymore for anything because you['re] just doing things which are completely wrong. You shouldn't do that. You shouldn't allow them to have that conversation." So, it happened. And, second question. Yes. Moderator: So, one more question. What stops me from generating the bugs [that] I will fix for your money? What stops me from generating the bugs that will get fixed for your money? So, basically - Yegor: Okay, yeah. That's a good question. So, what stops the developer from generating - while writing - the code and introducing some bugs which will be fixed later. And then, the developer will make more money, right? That's the question. Well, first of all we assign. But, we assign bugs to fix not to the same people who introduced them. So, we randomly assign tickets. So, let's say you're the developer. So, you create a piece of code. And, in that piece of code there is some bugs intentionally made. Okay, you made them intentionally. But, then these bugs will be fixed by that person, that person, and that person - randomly. So, there is no real reason for the developer to introduce bugs. Like, there's no, I haven't seen that any, like never. So - Say again? [listens to audience member speaking inaudibly, then audience laughs] Well, unless they have a secret chat. But, *we* assign tickets. So, they don't make this decision. We always give them tickets. We say like, "Hey, Jeff. This is your ticket." You can't choose it. I mean, you can say, "No, give me that one." It's always randomly only always to random people. That's how we actually solve the problem with no experts at all. So, because every time we give bugs and troubles to differ people. So, they always have to understand the new piece of code. So, there [is] always something in the code base - something new arrived into the person, and it helps. So, I haven't seen that. Moderator: Okay, great. Another question: So, how do you decide how much do you pay for a particular task? Yegor: Well, like I said, we always give the same. We say in the same budget. Let's say one hour, and one hour means multiplied by the hourly rate of the developer. So, we have like a group of developers. Let's say 20 people in the project. And, that person is 50 bucks an hour, or that person is 30 bucks an hour. So, and then, we have a bug for one hour. So, we randomly select the person and give it to that person. Okay, it's gonna cost $50. [audience member speaking inaudibly] Yeah, like, I just explained before. So, we just always say one hour. We don't know - we don't estimate. We don't care. So, we just say one hour. Well, in our case, it's half an hour. We try it - one hour - but, now we use 30 minutes. So, it's always half an hour. And, we allow developers to cheat and return back the code - return back to fix not completely fixed. So, sometimes we have bugs which takes an oh, five, seven, ten steps. So, let's say, I create - there's a bug. I assign it to you. You fix it not completely. You just say, "Hey, I just - for example - I introduced the unit test which which proves that this is not the problem." But, I don't know what the problem is. So, I introduce new unit test. And, I put a new marker saying like, "Hey, please investigate further, because it looks like - here's the new unit test but - it doesn't prove that the bug is there." I've returned that code back. The new developer picks up the marker and tries again. Again, it can [be] that the developer can't do anything. Again, the new code comes into master branch. The new developer is assigned. A new developer is assigned. So, we can jump back and forth, back and forth, on these iterations, sometimes for ten times, and eventually that will be fixed. So, the total cost of the bug will be 10 multiplied by 30 minutes. There's gonna be 300 minutes - the total budget. But, it's going to be 10 increments. 10 Increments with 10 people, which is a way more manageable situation comparing to one person [spending] 300 minutes. "Hey, here's your task work for 300 minutes" which means, what, five hours. Maybe, you will fix it. In our case, it's going to be ten people touching that problem. Ten people. Eventually, the person number ten will fix it. Which one is manageable - more manageable? Obviously, the - our approach. So, we don't estimate. We just always say thirty minutes, half an hour, whatever. You do half an hour, do something, do something, do something. And then, we iterate, iterate, iterate. Moderator: Okay, great. And what about "Ops" now what about operations and infrastructure? How do you pay for that? Yegor: Well for DevOps, it's kind of something we haven't touched like seriously. So, I'm not sure how it's gonna work for DevOps. For the current situation with DevOps where people actually - you know - configure servers and install something on servers. So, my answer is, "I don't know." We'll try. We haven't touched that area yet. Maybe with the immutable servers - which i think is gonna be the future - when we'll have mutable servers, and then the entire infrastructure will be kept in the in the repository as a code, and everything will happen in the code, and then the infrastructure will be automatically deployed to production like in one-click, then probably the DevOps will be equal to developer. And then, the problem will be solved. But, right now it's more like people with the SSH consoles. So, it's difficult to do. Moderator: If the server is down, the spacer duty also just open a ticket? Yegor: Well, in most cases. Yeah, in most cases of the server is down, we also open the ticket. We also open the ticket and say, "Hey, somebody fixd that." And, sometimes - it's a good question - sometimes, we need that ticket to be fixed now instead of in five hours. And, [in] that case, we increase the budget. We just say, "It's not 30 minutes. It's two hours." Even though we understand it's a work for five minutes or 15 minutes. We just multiply - we boost - the budget. We say like "multiple" and it means like the developer will pick it up immediately and will try to do everything to close because the budget is way higher. So, we can - we actually motivate by money which is [a] really good thing. So, most people say that money is not a motivator. We completely disagree with that. Money is the greatest motivator. That is the greatest motivator ever invented in human history. We don't need anything else. We don't need [these] - you know - tennis tables in the office. We don't need these coffee machines. We need money. Just give money to people in a clear way so the developers will understand why the money coming there, how to increase the amount of money. I don't need this soft skills. I don't - I don't need to please my manager. I just need to close more tickets. This is, I think, the way more productive - you know - approach to motivating people. There's the question here. Maybe, yeah. [audience member speaks inaudibly] Taxes? Well, we pay taxes. Programmers pay taxes. So, programmers want to send money to - programmers, they pay all their own taxes, of course. Yeah. Moderator: How much do you pay managers and how well for managers? Yegor: We pay in the same, well, we also pay by task. And so, the more tasks a manager is managing, is assigning, closing, assigning, closing, the more money the manager gets. So, we're always trying to attach everybody in the project for results. So, the more the project produces - the more we deliver to the customer more code - the more everybody - you know - gets. And, the customers appreciate it. And, we build them like that. So, in the end of the week, end of the month, we just show the customer the total amount of tasks we closed, bugs we solved, and this is the amount of money the customer pays. Yeah. Moderator: Okay. Who is breaking up work in chunks? What if the chunk is too big? Yegor: Well, I just explained that. I explained that. We just - you know - we just give the full chunk to [the] developer and then we allow [the] developer to cheat. So, that's how we break it. Moderator: Do you even have permanent employees in the company, except yourself? Yegor: Well, we - I'm, in general, against permanent employment. I think it's a modern form of slavery. So, this long-term employment is, well, it's really good for lazy developers. It's really, it's perfect. Because, like I said, no matter what you do, you get the money. But, it's not really good for people who are - you know - who are self-motivated, who are interested to grow, who wants to get pleasure from the work. So, this full time employment - long-term employment - is really not productive. It's everywhere right now. All companies pay that. And - you know - it's really difficult to fight against that. But, I think the future is different. I think, in the future, we'll get more money per hour, but, we'll get paid for results. I think that's the future for professional development - not what we have right now. What we have right now is, like I'm saying, it's modern slavery of the 21st century. It's gonna go. Moderator: Okay, and the last question. From me actually to the audience. Yegor: Yeah. Moderator: How many people agree with this approach? Yegor: See? 50%. Moderator: Thank you, Yegor. That was awesome. Yegor: Thank you very much. [Applause]
